README_en.md, before:

# PlanescapeTormentRmk


## [Russian](README.md)

Rewriting Planescape:Torment on Renpy. I love this game.

Contact me via telegram `@snowinmars` or email `snowinmars@yandex.ru`, but I almost do not read it.

All the stuff is under GNU/GPLv3


## Download

- prebuild - [disk.yandex.ru](https://disk.yandex.ru/d/1vqwCTMVOBEbgA)
  - web - `PlanescapeTormentRmk-*-web.zip`
  - linux - `PlanescapeTormentRmk-*-linux.tar.bz2`
  - windows - `PlanescapeTormentRmk-*-win.zip`
  - mac - `PlanescapeTormentRmk-*-mac.zip`
  - android - `rmk.torment.planescape-*-*-release.apk` (does NOT work)
  - joiPlay - import web build into JoiPlay (have no mobile-optimized UI)
- run in browser
  - [itch.io](https://snowinmars.itch.io/planescapetormentrmk)
  - [gamejolt.com](https://gamejolt.com/games/planescapetormentrmk/1018976)
  - [newgrounds.com](https://www.newgrounds.com/portal/view/1011470)
- git clone https://github.com/snowinmars/PlanescapeTormentRmk.git -> импорт в RenPy


## How to dev

Ensure that `.coveragerc` is working: you should not run tests from omitted paths.

- Add stuff you want
- `cd /src`
- `python ./build.py` - regenerate `src/game/engine_data/settings/generated.py` and `src/d_renpy/*`
- `docker compose up` - test all the stuff you wrote, all tests should end succeessfully
- Open the `src\htmlcov\index.html` in browser. Make sure that coverage is at least 99%. Python is a runtime trash


### File naming

If the rpy filename is `T.rpy`, than:
- for constructors:
  - file name `T_ctors.rpy`
- for logic:
  - file name `T_logic.py` with class name `TLogic`
- for logic tests
  - file name `T_tests.py` with class name `TLogicTest`


### Linter statistics

- db = dialogue blocks
- wd = words
- ch = characters
- aw = average of words
- cb = characters per block
- mn = menus
- im = images
- sc = screens

Versions 0.0.1 and 0.0.2 have only Russian.

Versions 0.0.3+ have Russian and English as meaningfull languages and czech, deutsch, french, korean and polski as disabled autogenerated from source.

Russian:
| version | db   | wd    | ch     | aw   | cb  | mn   | im  | sc  |
| ------- | ---- | ----- | ------ | ---- | --- | ---- | --- | --- |
| 0.0.1   | 3386 | 40856 | 256536 | 12.1 | 76  | 1451 | 65  | 51  |
| 0.0.2   | 3386 | 40856 | 256536 | 12.1 | 76  | 1451 | 66  | 50  |
| 0.0.3   | 3326 | 40398 | 300003 | 12.1 | 90  | 1451 | 66  | 50  |
| 0.0.4   | 3327 | 40354 | 301097 | 12.1 | 91  | 1451 | 66  | 55  |
| 0.0.5   | 3327 | 40356 | 301102 | 12.1 | 91  | 1451 | 66  | 71  |
| 0.0.6   | 3328 | 40369 | 301208 | 12.1 | 91  | 1451 | 49  | 60  |
| 0.0.7   | 3330 | 40386 | 301336 | 12.1 | 90  | 1452 | 50  | 64  |
| 0.0.8   | 3344 | 40503 | 302258 | 12.1 | 90  | 1452 | 52  | 62  |
| 0.0.9   | 3347 | 40519 | 301726 | 12.1 | 90  | 1453 | 51  | 64  |

English:
| version | db   | wd    | ch     | aw   | cb  | mn   | im  | sc  |
| ------- | ---- | ----- | ------ | ---- | --- | ---- | --- | --- |
| 0.0.1   |      |       |        |      |     |      |     |     |
| 0.0.2   |      |       |        |      |     |      |     |     |
| 0.0.3   | 3412 | 48312 | 310091 | 14.2 | 91  | 1451 | 66  | 50  |
| 0.0.4   | 3427 | 48260 | 311739 | 14.1 | 91  | 1451 | 66  | 55  |
| 0.0.5   | 3427 | 48265 | 311789 | 14.1 | 91  | 1451 | 66  | 71  |
| 0.0.6   | 3429 | 48281 | 311888 | 14.1 | 91  | 1451 | 49  | 60  |
| 0.0.7   | 3431 | 48298 | 312013 | 14.1 | 91  | 1452 | 50  | 64  |
| 0.0.8   | 3445 | 48471 | 313078 | 14.1 | 91  | 1452 | 52  | 62  |
| 0.0.8   | 3447 | 48488 | 312526 | 14.1 | 91  | 1453 | 51  | 64  |

### Build statistic

- mz = windows-build size in kb
- lz = linux-build size in kb
- wz = web-build size in kb

| version | mz     | lz     | wz     | mc     |
| ------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| 0.0.1   |        |        |        |        |
| 0.0.2   | 136152 | 122013 | 151831 |        |
| 0.0.3   | 140164 | 126037 | 155812 |        |
| 0.0.4   | 186286 | 171286 | 201937 |        |
| 0.0.5   | 189454 | 174551 | 205126 |        |
| 0.0.6   | 195719 | 180889 | 212101 |        |
| 0.0.7   | 197722 | 181624 | 214104 | 206651 |
| 0.0.8   | 201871 | 185572 | 218261 | 210800 |
| 0.0.9   | 223434 | 200887 | 239858 | 232364 |

Commit message:

Prune binary from repository, extract them into separate item

README_en.md, after:

# PlanescapeTormentRmk


## [Russian](README.md)

Rewriting Planescape:Torment on Renpy. I love this game.

Contact me via telegram `@snowinmars` or email `snowinmars@yandex.ru`, but I almost do not read it.

All the stuff is under GNU/GPLv3


## Download

- prebuild - [disk.yandex.ru](https://disk.yandex.ru/d/1vqwCTMVOBEbgA)
  - web - `PlanescapeTormentRmk-*-web.zip`
  - linux - `PlanescapeTormentRmk-*-linux.tar.bz2`
  - windows - `PlanescapeTormentRmk-*-win.zip`
  - mac - `PlanescapeTormentRmk-*-mac.zip`
  - android - `rmk.torment.planescape-*-*-release.apk` (does NOT work)
  - joiPlay - import web build into JoiPlay (have no mobile-optimized UI)
- run in browser
  - [itch.io](https://snowinmars.itch.io/planescapetormentrmk)
  - [gamejolt.com](https://gamejolt.com/games/planescapetormentrmk/1018976)
  - [newgrounds.com](https://www.newgrounds.com/portal/view/1011470)
- git clone https://github.com/snowinmars/PlanescapeTormentRmk.git -> импорт в RenPy


### For developers

Binary files like images, music, etc storage separatelly at https://disk.yandex.ru/d/1vqwCTMVOBEbgA. Download the required 7z archive and extract it into the game folder


## How to dev

Ensure that `.coveragerc` is working: you should not run tests from omitted paths.

- Add stuff you want
- `cd /src`
- `python ./build.py` - regenerate `src/game/engine_data/settings/generated.py` and `src/d_renpy/*`
- `docker compose up` - test all the stuff you wrote, all tests should end succeessfully
- Open the `src\htmlcov\index.html` in browser. Make sure that coverage is at least 90%. Python is a runtime trash


### File naming

If the rpy filename is `T.rpy`, than:
- for constructors:
  - file name `T_ctors.rpy`
- for logic:
  - file name `T_logic.py` with class name `TLogic`
- for logic tests
  - file name `T_tests.py` with class name `TLogicTest`


### Linter statistics

- db = dialogue blocks
- wd = words
- ch = characters
- aw = average of words
- cb = characters per block
- mn = menus
- im = images
- sc = screens

Versions 0.0.1 and 0.0.2 have only Russian.

Versions 0.0.3+ have Russian and English as meaningfull languages and czech, deutsch, french, korean and polski as disabled autogenerated from source.

Russian:
| version | db   | wd    | ch     | aw   | cb  | mn   | im  | sc  |
| ------- | ---- | ----- | ------ | ---- | --- | ---- | --- | --- |
| 0.0.1   | 3386 | 40856 | 256536 | 12.1 | 76  | 1451 | 65  | 51  |
| 0.0.2   | 3386 | 40856 | 256536 | 12.1 | 76  | 1451 | 66  | 50  |
| 0.0.3   | 3326 | 40398 | 300003 | 12.1 | 90  | 1451 | 66  | 50  |
| 0.0.4   | 3327 | 40354 | 301097 | 12.1 | 91  | 1451 | 66  | 55  |
| 0.0.5   | 3327 | 40356 | 301102 | 12.1 | 91  | 1451 | 66  | 71  |
| 0.0.6   | 3328 | 40369 | 301208 | 12.1 | 91  | 1451 | 49  | 60  |
| 0.0.7   | 3330 | 40386 | 301336 | 12.1 | 90  | 1452 | 50  | 64  |
| 0.0.8   | 3344 | 40503 | 302258 | 12.1 | 90  | 1452 | 52  | 62  |
| 0.0.9   | 3347 | 40519 | 301726 | 12.1 | 90  | 1453 | 51  | 64  |

English:
| version | db   | wd    | ch     | aw   | cb  | mn   | im  | sc  |
| ------- | ---- | ----- | ------ | ---- | --- | ---- | --- | --- |
| 0.0.1   |      |       |        |      |     |      |     |     |
| 0.0.2   |      |       |        |      |     |      |     |     |
| 0.0.3   | 3412 | 48312 | 310091 | 14.2 | 91  | 1451 | 66  | 50  |
| 0.0.4   | 3427 | 48260 | 311739 | 14.1 | 91  | 1451 | 66  | 55  |
| 0.0.5   | 3427 | 48265 | 311789 | 14.1 | 91  | 1451 | 66  | 71  |
| 0.0.6   | 3429 | 48281 | 311888 | 14.1 | 91  | 1451 | 49  | 60  |
| 0.0.7   | 3431 | 48298 | 312013 | 14.1 | 91  | 1452 | 50  | 64  |
| 0.0.8   | 3445 | 48471 | 313078 | 14.1 | 91  | 1452 | 52  | 62  |
| 0.0.8   | 3447 | 48488 | 312526 | 14.1 | 91  | 1453 | 51  | 64  |

### Build statistic

- mz = windows-build size in kb
- lz = linux-build size in kb
- wz = web-build size in kb

| version | mz     | lz     | wz     | mc     |
| ------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| 0.0.1   |        |        |        |        |
| 0.0.2   | 136152 | 122013 | 151831 |        |
| 0.0.3   | 140164 | 126037 | 155812 |        |
| 0.0.4   | 186286 | 171286 | 201937 |        |
| 0.0.5   | 189454 | 174551 | 205126 |        |
| 0.0.6   | 195719 | 180889 | 212101 |        |
| 0.0.7   | 197722 | 181624 | 214104 | 206651 |
| 0.0.8   | 201871 | 185572 | 218261 | 210800 |
| 0.0.9   | 223434 | 200887 | 239858 | 232364 |
